DOCSP-15336 crud retrieve (#75)
mongodb/docs-java: source/fundamentals/crud/read-operations/retrieve.txt

==============
Retrieve Data
==============

.. default-domain:: mongodb

Read operations allow you to retrieve data from your MongoDB database.

You can retrieve data using find, aggregate, and watch operations.

A find operation is useful if you want a subset of the existing data
based on your query filter. You can further specify which documents to
retrieve such as how to sort results, skip results, limit results and
limit the fields to return. 

An aggregate operation is useful if you want to perform an ordered
pipeline of transformations to the matched data. You can perform all
find operations, rename fields, calculate fields, summarize data and
group values.

A watch operation is useful if you want to monitor the database in
real-time. You can specify which write operations to monitor such as

> insert, update and delete.

Reviewer: Maybe instead of organizing this section by features, it can be organized by what actions a reader may want to perform. It maybe could be a list of use cases. For example:

You should read this guide if you would like to:
- Retrieve a subset of your database
- Perform transformations on a subset of your database (this is weak, but I think captures my meaning)
- Monitor changes to your database

The following examples use documents in the ``paint_orders`` collection
which represent invoices of a paint store:

.. code-block:: json

    { "_id": 1, "color": "red", "qty": 16 }
    { "_id": 2, "color": "purple", "qty": 10 }
    { "_id": 3, "color": "green", "qty": 8 }
    { "_id": 4, "color": "purple", "qty": 4 }
    { "_id": 5, "color": "red", "qty": 9 }
    { "_id": 6, "color": "green", "qty": 11 }

Find
----

The find operation allows you to specify a query to show specific results

> using the ``find()`` method. This method makes a call to the collection

Reviewer: I think this conflates "the find operation" with "the find method". Maybe this could be broken up into two sentences?

I think it is incorrect to say "call to the collection". I believe find triggers communication with the user's MongoDB instance. find() is a method of MongoCollection, but I do not believe it is accurate to say that the method makes a call to a collection.

> specified with the query filter you provide. For more information, see

Reviewer: I do not believe the collection is specified in the query document. I believe the collection is specified when the MongoCollection instance is initialized?

our :doc:`Specify a Query </fundamentals/crud/query-document>` guide. 

To access the results, you can iterate through the results using a
cursor. For more information, see our :doc:`Access Data From a Cursor
</fundamentals/crud/read-operations/cursor>` guide. 

The following example filters for orders where their quantity is greater
than 9, but less than 15 in the ``paint_orders`` collection:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/Retrieve.java
   :language: java
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin findExample
   :end-before: end findExample

The following shows the output of the query above:

.. code-block:: json

    { "_id": 2, "color": "purple", "qty": 10 }
    { "_id": 6, "color": "green", "qty": 11 }

See :doc:`find a document </usage-examples/find>` and :doc:`find
multiple documents </usage-examples/findOne>` for fully-runnable
``find()`` and ``findOne()`` examples.

Aggregate
---------

The aggregate operation allows you to run a custom processing pipeline

> to retrieve data from your collection using the ``aggregate()`` method.

Reviewer: As this is phrased, it sounds like this is saying that "the aggregation operation uses the aggregate() method." I believe this is incorrect. I believe the aggregate() method instructs you MongoDB instance to perform an aggregate operation.

This method accepts aggregation expressions to run in sequence. These

> expressions let you filter, group, and arrange the result data from a

Reviewer: I read this sentence as though this is an exhaustive list. I am not sure how best to convey that this list is not exhaustive, but I think that could improve this sentence.

collection. For more information, see our :doc:`Aggregation

> <../../aggregation>` guide.

Reviewer: Nitpick:

Should this link be an absolute path? I don't think we have made a decision on absolute vs relative links as a team, but I think this should be an absolute path. I think absolute paths are easier to reason through than relative paths.

Author: I initially had it as an absolute path, but for some reason, it gets appended to the folder where the current file I'm working on is.  It took me a while to realize that, but this was the only solution I found for the link to work.

Author: nvm, I realized I forgot the starting / to properly index

The following example groups orders by colors and sums up their

> quantity in the ``paint_orders`` collection: 

Reviewer: I read this as though the grouping occurs in the ``paint_orders`` collection. The elements in the paint_orders collection are grouped, but the grouping occurs in an aggregation pipeline outside of a MongoDB collection.

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/Retrieve.java
   :language: java
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin aggregateExample
   :end-before: end aggregateExample

The following shows the output of the query above:

.. code-block:: json

    { "_id": "green", "qty": 19 }
    { "_id": "red", "qty": 25 }
    { "_id": "purple", "qty": 14 }

See the MongoDB server manual pages on :manual:`aggregation </aggregation>`

> for more information on how to construct an aggregation pipeline.

Reviewer: I think you should start this with "For more information". So "For more information on X, see Y". This order lets the reader know quickly whether or not they want to follow the link without backtracking.

Watch
-----

The watch operation allows you to monitor write operations to documents
in a collection using the ``watch()`` method. For more information on
write operations, see our :doc:`Write Operation
<../write-operations>` page. 

You can pass this method to an aggregation pipeline to perform actions
as soon as a write operation occurs on the collection. 

> The following example creates a watch stream for insert and update

Reviewer: I don't know what a "watch stream" is. Could this be introduced? What is the difference between a "watch stream" and a "watch operation"?

==============
Retrieve Data
==============

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to retrieve data from your MongoDB
database. To retrieve data, use read operations.

Read operations allow you to do the following:

- :ref:`Retrieve a subset of documents from your collection <retrieve-find>`
- :ref:`Perform transformations on retrieved documents from your collection <retrieve-aggregate>`
- :ref:`Monitor real-time changes to your database <retrieve-watch>`

Paint Orders
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The examples in the following sections are about a paint store that
keeps track of orders they need to fulfill. The paint store keeps track
of orders with the ``color`` and ``qty`` fields in their
``paint_orders`` collection: 

.. code-block:: json

    { "_id": 1, "color": "purple", "qty": 10 }
    { "_id": 2, "color": "green", "qty": 8 }
    { "_id": 3, "color": "purple", "qty": 4 }

>     { "_id": 4, "color": "green", "qty": 11 }

Author: I thought it could be assumed that using order in a plural form meant having multiple orders opposed to an array of orders in a document.  I'll change it to singular to avoid confusion/further explanation to the reader.

Read operations
---------------

.. _retrieve-find:

Find
~~~~

Use the find operation to retrieve a subset of your existing data in
MongoDB. To further specify which documents to retrieve, you can sort,
skip, and limit the documents or fields.

To perform a find operation, use the ``find()`` method on a
collection. This method searches a collection for documents that
match the query filter you provide. For more information on how to
specify a query, see our :doc:`Specify a Query
</fundamentals/crud/query-document>` guide. 

To access the results, you can iterate through the results using a

> cursor. For more information on query filters, see our :doc:`Access Data

Reviewer 2: Does your example use a cursor to iterate through the results? If it's important enough to mention, should the example also demonstrate a cursor?

Author: I kept this here because we talk about the way for each is used on the cursor page (acts like a cursor even though it isn't a cursor object)

Reviewer 2: Usually when you mention that your code example accomplishes something "using <something>", the reader expects to see it in the code or a description of how it's used if not explicitly in the code. While the driver probably communicates with a cursor provided by the server while you iterate through the result object when you call forEach on the AggregateIterable, it's a couple levels removed from a cursor.

I think it's ok to describe accessing the results through a cursor and not show it in your example, but it would be helpful to have the reader understand that's the case. For an example of how you can use a MongoCursor idiomatically, see:
https://mongodb.github.io/mongo-java-driver/4.2/apidocs/mongodb-driver-sync/com/mongodb/client/MongoCursor.html

You can modify your existing code (if you want to show MongoCursor) by calling `iterator()` on your Iterable and then iterating over that as shown in the MongoCursor javadoc example.

If you feel strongly about not providing this info or incorporating it into your example, that's fine, not a blocker.

From a Cursor </fundamentals/crud/read-operations/cursor>` guide. 

Example
```````

The paint store would like to know which orders contain more than three, but
less than ten cans of paint.

To address this scenario, the paint store needs to query the
``paint_orders`` collection with a filter for orders where their

> quantity is greater than "3", but less than "10" : 

Reviewer 2: I think the mix of a high-level description and technical information makes it less easy to read. I wonder if we can separate those out or only present one. If we were just to describe it without technical information, you might say "the paint store needs to find all orders in which the quantity of paint ordered is greater than "3" but less than ten." If you described it with only technical information, you could say, "[the store] builds a query to match all documents in the ``paint_orders`` collection in which the ``qty`` field is greater than "3" and less than "10"."

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/Retrieve.java
   :language: java
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin findExample
   :end-before: end findExample

> For more information how to use filters, see our :doc:`Filters Builders

Reviewer 2: Since you can specify a filter without the Filter builder, I think you should make sure this is communicating that you're referring only how to build filters with the Filter builder.

</fundamentals/builders/filters>` guide.

The following shows the output of the query specified above:

.. code-block:: json

    { "_id": 2, "color": "green", "qty": 8 }
    { "_id": 3, "color": "purple", "qty": 4 }

After the paint store runs this query, they find that orders with

> ``_id`` "2" and "3" contain more than three, but less than ten cans

Reviewer 2: Nitpick: "if the number is 10 or larger, use numerals" (https://docs.mongodb.com/meta/style-guide/style/numbers/)
Applies to all instances.

Author: I confirmed with Tony that _id values can be left as the number itself -- he said he'll soon update the style guide to say so

the MongoDB server manual page on :manual:`Aggregation </aggregation>`.

.. _retrieve-watch:

Change Streams
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Open a change stream to monitor real-time changes to a collection.
Change streams subscribe to all data changes specified and 
immediately react to them. For more information on change streams, see
the MongoDB server manual page on :manual:`Change Streams </changeStreams>`. 

To open a change stream, use the ``watch()`` method on a
``MongoCollection``, ``MongoDatabase`` or ``MongoClient``. You can pass
this method to an aggregation pipeline to notify you and react as soon as a
change occurs.

Example
```````

The paint store would like notifications for when customers send in new
orders or update their order.

To address this scenario, the paint store needs to:

- create an aggregation pipeline that filters for "insert" and "update" as a``operationType``
- create a watch stream on the aggregation pipeline
- print changes picked up by the watch stream

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/Retrieve.java
   :language: java
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin watchExample
   :end-before: end watchExample

> After the paint store runs the query, they will get notifications for any

Reviewer 2: Two items:
1) avoid future tense
2) is creating a change stream the same as "runs a query?" or should they be different?

   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin findExample
   :end-before: end findExample

For more information how to build filters, see our :doc:`Filters Builders
</fundamentals/builders/filters>` guide.

The following shows the output of the query specified above:

.. code-block:: json

    { "_id": 2, "color": "green", "qty": 8 }
    { "_id": 3, "color": "purple", "qty": 4 }

After the paint store runs this query, they find that orders with
``_id`` "2" and "3" contain more than three, but less than ten cans
of paint.

For a runnable ``find()`` example, see our :doc:`Find Multiple
Documents </usage-examples/find>` page. 

.. _retrieve-aggregate:

Aggregate
~~~~~~~~~

Use the aggregate operation to perform the stages in an aggregation
pipeline.  An aggregation pipeline is a multi-staged transformation that
produces an aggregated result. 

To perform an aggregate operation, call the ``aggregate()`` method on an
instance of a ``MongoCollection``. This method accepts aggregation
expressions to run in sequence. To perform transformations, you can
define aggregation stages that specify how to match documents, rename
fields and group values. For more information on aggregation, see our

> :doc:`Aggregation  </fundamentals/aggregation>` guide.

Reviewer 2: Nitpick: I think there's an extra space here. It may not impact anything, but it's useful to stick to the same format if possible.

Example
```````

The paint store would like to know which color is the most purchased
(highest quantity sold).

To address the scenario, the paint store needs to create an aggregation
pipeline that:

- Matches all the documents in the ``paint_order`` collection
- Groups orders by colors 
- Sums up the quantity field by color

> - Sorts the results in descending order by quantity

Reviewer 2: Nitpick:
I think "descending order by quantity" might be slightly confusing. This might be a better way to phrase this item:
```suggestion
- Orders the results by highest-to-lowest quantity
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/Retrieve.java
   :language: java
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin aggregateExample
   :end-before: end aggregateExample

> The following shows the output of the query specified above:

Reviewer 2: Technically an aggregation which I don't think is a query.
.
```suggestion
The following shows the output of the aggregation specified above:
```

.. code-block:: json

    { "_id": "green", "qty": 19 }
    { "_id": "purple", "qty": 14 }

After the paint store runs the query, they find that "green" is the most
purchased color.

For more information on how to construct an aggregation pipeline, see
the MongoDB server manual page on :manual:`Aggregation </aggregation>`.

.. _retrieve-watch:

Change Streams
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Open a change stream to monitor real-time changes to a collection.

> Change streams can subscribe to types of data changes specified and 

Reviewer 2: Not certain what "data changes specified" could refer to and it sounds like passive voice. Did you mean specific types of data changes like "insert" and "update" operations?

```suggestion
Change streams can subscribe to specific types of data changes and 
```

immediately produce change events. For more information on change
streams, see the MongoDB server manual page on :manual:`Change Streams
</changeStreams>`. 

To open a change stream, call the ``watch()`` method on an instance of a

> ``MongoCollection``, ``MongoDatabase`` or ``MongoClient``. You can pass

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this is apparent or in the usage example, but maybe it could be helpful to mention that choosing which of the three instances determines the scope of what you're watching.

> an aggregation pipeline to this method to notify you and react as soon as a

Reviewer 2: A couple items:

1) I think react is something that describes part of the process of creating a notification so you'd probably want to list it first if you needed to include both "notify" and "react".
2) I don't think react adds any value since "notify you" is the only item that is describing the outcome. 

```suggestion
an aggregation pipeline to this method to notify you as soon as a
```

Sample Data for Examples
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following sections feature examples of how the owner of a paint
store manages their customers' orders. For each order, the owner keeps
track of the color and quantity, which corresponds to the ``color`` and
``qty`` fields in their ``paint_order`` collection: 

.. code-block:: json

   { "_id": 1, "color": "purple", "qty": 10 }
   { "_id": 2, "color": "green", "qty": 8 }
   { "_id": 3, "color": "purple", "qty": 4 }
   { "_id": 4, "color": "green", "qty": 11 }

Read Operations
---------------

.. _retrieve-find:

Find
~~~~

Use the find operation to retrieve a subset of your existing data in
MongoDB. You can specify what data to return including which documents
to retrieve, in what order to retrieve them and how many to retrieve. 

To perform a find operation, call the ``find()`` method on an instance
of a ``MongoCollection``. This method searches a collection for documents that
match the query filter you provide. For more information on how to
specify a query, see our :doc:`Specify a Query
</fundamentals/crud/query-document>` guide. 

Example
```````

The owner would like to know which orders contain greater than three, but

> less than 10 cans of paint from their :ref:`paint_order collection <retrieve-paint-order-collection>`.

Reviewer 3: Comment: I noticed a mix of numbers being used here and it just stood out: three, 10

   { "_id": "purple", "qty": 14 }

After the owner runs the aggregation, they find that "green" is the most
purchased color.

For more information on how to construct an aggregation pipeline, see
the MongoDB server manual page on :manual:`Aggregation </aggregation>`.

.. _retrieve-watch:

Change Streams
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Open a change stream to monitor real-time changes to a collection.
Change streams can subscribe to specific types of data changes and 
immediately produce change events. For more information on change
streams, see the MongoDB server manual page on :manual:`Change Streams
</changeStreams>`. 

To open a change stream, call the ``watch()`` method on an instance of a
``MongoCollection``, ``MongoDatabase`` or ``MongoClient``. 
You can pass an aggregation pipeline to this method to notify you as
soon as a change occurs.

The instance you call the ``watch()`` method on determines the scope of
events which the change stream listens for. If you call ``watch()`` on a
``MongoCollection``, the method monitors a collection. If you call
``watch()`` on a ``MongoDatabase``, the method monitors all the
collections in the database. If you call ``watch()`` on a

> ``MongoClient``, the method monitors a standalone MongoDB instance, a

Reviewer 3: Note: standalone MongoDB instances don't currently support change streams.

See: https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-35855
and https://github.com/mongodb/specifications/blob/master/source/change-streams/change-streams.rst#single-server-topologies
